welcome back everyone nice to see that
you keep coming back to the well Laszlo
Montgomery here again with a nice
musical Cheung you for your ongoing
edification we're using a Cheung you
that comes from one of the greatest
primary sources in ancient Chinese
history when as far as I know we haven't
drawn on this one yet for any Chinese
sayings Musical or otherwise the work
from which today's Chun U is derived is
called the Swan
this work along with each wouldn't show
or spring and autumn annals written by
Confucius or so they say are a couple of
the most authoritative primary sources
of the spring and autumn period that
have made it to our time so the electron
is one hell of an important work that
sheds some light on those later Jo
dynasty days more than 2500 years ago
let's look at the story behind Eagle
torchy but before we do so let's plot
this four syllable idiomatic phrase up
on the slab and pick it apart character
by character Eagle torchy Yi is the
number one a GU is a drum Eagle one drum
to off means to make or to do and Chi
this means breath if you're familiar
with the subject of Chi cone this is
that character Chi so line them all up
in a row and we get one drum make breath
stop trying to figure it out if you
don't know the story from which this
chung you spraying I'm telling you
you're wasting your time trying to guess
so let's open up the toilet Juan and go
to the chapter on the ten years of duked
Wong the sixteenth ruler of the loose
States going all the way back to the
oldest son of the Duke of Joe himself
co-starring as production is duped wrong
of Lou's trusty military advisor Hulk
wait now loose state is somewhat of a
sacred cow as far as all these Joe era
kingdoms
States go Confucius and matza both came
from Lu province of Shandong is referred
to as Qi Liu Li Angkor the two kingdoms
of Lu and Qi Liu was in the south and
she was in the north combined they
pretty much make up the whole province
of Shandong cars registered in Shandong
province today have the character Lu on
the license plate
harkening back to this labelled time in
ancient Chinese history the Jo dynasty
we're in the year 684 BCE at the Battle
of Cheung sha the kingdom of Qi was
warring on the neighbor and kingdom of
Lu to the south and the two sides faced
off outside of present-day libel as they
did back in those days the two opposing
sides would face off on the battlefield
and their respective battledrums would
be beaten to summon the other side to
combat all the sudden that familiar boom
that stirred the blood of many ancient
warriors was heard and felt and the
numerically superior Qi army began
pounding their battle drums to start the
beginning of combat and to summon the
little army to engage them Duke drawing
of Lu gave the order to his senior
general to return the volley and sound
the drums at once however the senior
general named tall quake advised Duke
Tuan not to do this he counseled his
superior to hold off don't do anything
yet wait for Qi to beat their drums
again and then a third time before doing
anything a second time and then shortly
thereafter for a third time that she
army sounded their battle drums only
after the third time dits Hulk way
tailed to Trung of Liu now was the time
to advance an attack so the sound of the
Liu battledrums went out across the
battlefield and with everyone's
adrenaline flowing forward the Liu army
advanced so hard and ferociously did
these Lu soldiers fight that when it was
all over it was a resounding defeat for
Qi the Liu army totally over
and bravery was exhibited by his troops
the likes that Duke drawn had never seen
before that night after Lu soldiers were
mopping up two drunk asked hogleg why he
had stayed his hand when he had called
for his drummers to return the Qi call
for battle general talk--we explained in
battle at the very beginning when the
drums are first beaten a soldier's
courage morale and will to fight is at
its highest then when it beats the
second time these feelings are
diminished compared to the magnitude of
a soldier's courage after hearing the
first drumbeats
by the third pounding of the drums the
courage of these soldiers will fall to
the extent that their will to fight will
be affected then explains hog way we
beat our drums for the first time and
charged into battle when our soldiers
courage was at its peak with one single
pounding of the battle drums
we immediately rushed forward and
overcame our less courageous enemy when
our will to fight after the first beat
of the drum was at its peak there's on
the Chi side who's already greatly
reduced and therefore although they
outnumbered us greatly we were able to
defeat them - Towanda blue nodded with
understanding and said I see what this
means with only one beating of our drums
we gave all we got and in one sudden
burst of energy with our will to fight
at its peak we overcame chi and so with
eagle one beat of the drums the army of
luo luo chi expended all their energies
and therefore emerged victorious on that
day back in 684 BCE Eagle jaw Chi
that's a Chung you you should keep
tucked away for when you're in a
situation where you're gonna be required
to give all you got in one single burst
of energy and trying to accomplish a
difficult or perhaps seemingly
impossible task in one shot you give all
you got to achieve your objective Eagles
or Chi I'm not sure I could come up with
the exact in
equivalent of this Cheung you in a
single burst of energy that's the best I
could come up with so that is our
Chinese saying for this time let me see
what musical Chinese saying I could take
up for next time I'm running out don't
forget everyone there's not just this
one podcast here at tea cut media we
have three to choose from well over a
hundred hours of pure unadulterated
enjoyment over at the long-running China
history podcast and for some dynamite
travel literature from Westerners who
went to China during the ching dynasty
and wrote about it go check out the
china vintage hour all available in
itunes google music stitcher tune in
radio overcast all the good ones and if
your flood Cathay Pacific Airways they
to carry this stuff in their in-flight
entertainment system they have such nice
taste okay
until the next time this is your hosts
la Isla Montgomery signing off on
another perfect sunny day here in the
capital of southern California a Los
Angeles thanks for popping by for a
visit and a listen and I'll be hoping
and praying you'll come back next time
for another exciting episode of the
Chinese sayings podcast
you